Hello
8/30
Today, we practiced developing an entity-relationship (ER) diagrams for the poke center. We established tables for different entities, such as customers, transactions, centers, regions, and services. Through the activity, we figured the relationship types between entities and also realized the importance of giving IDs to the entities. 

8/31
Today, we discussed three aspects of an ER diagram – attributes, entities, and relationships. There are multiple ways in which one can classify attributes. First, attributes can be classified either as simple or composite. A composite attribute is made of many simple attributes, and an example of a composite attribute is address. Further, an attribute can also be single valued or multivalued. For instance, while "highest level of education" is single-valued, "educational degrees" is multivalued. Attributes can also be stored or derived. For instance, "birthdate" is a stored attribute while "age" can be derived from birthdate. Lastly, complex attributes are attributes that use multiple other attributes and are usually derived. When discussing complex attributes, the notion of a null value was also brought up. Under the condition that there is no value for a certain attribute, a null value should be used instead of 0 or blank. Next, we moved on to discuss entities. An important aspect to note about entities is that all entities must have their own IDs as a key attribute. The value sets of entities should also have domains and set null values. Lastly, there are three types of relationships: 1:1, 1:M, and M:M. While a relatioship usually occurs between two different entities, it is possible for the same entity to participate in the relationship. In this case, the relationship is recursive as an entity refers to itself again in the table. Finally, we discussed ER notations – One would generally put a diamond around an action/verb that describes the relationship between two entities, and put a square around an entity.

9/4
Today, we reviewed the concepts of an ER model, and later worked on an ER model of a hotel branch. Regarding the hotel branch, we came up with six different entities – parking, transaction, guests, shareholders, employees, and services. After identifying the entities, we labeled the relationships between the entities, one of them being a recursive relationship (employee supervising employee). For homework, we have to revise the ER model so that all the primary functions of a hotel branch is included.

9/7
Today, we asked and discussed Ch3 homework questions, during which Mr. Ting demonstrated an example of an identifying relationship of a weak entity in a degree greater than two. Later, the class played kodenames to review the concepts and vocabulary of database terms we've learned so far.

9/11
Today, we played Jeopardy in class to review what we have learned so far. We all found the examples section particularly hard because those questions required us to draw out examples of specific ER models, which can become confusing as we try to figure out the relationship types. I found this exercise not only entertaining but also very effective in helping me review the content I have learned.

9/14
Today, we finished the last question from Jeopardy, and went onto a new exercise in which we practiced building an ER model for an occupation. The process of building ER models through randomly given cards helped reinforce our concepts of the components of an ER model. Further, the exercise trained our ability to be creative (but also practical) as we sought to explain the entities and relationship types of the occupation we received.

9/18
Today, we learned about the relational model, schema, and foreign keys. We then drew our ER models on scrap papers and had to identify the relationship types and schemas. 

9/21
Today, we built two tables for the STUCO store – one included all the items and the other one included discounts. Through the activity, we learned that arrows in an ER model is used to identify the relationship between two entities, and that hierarchy relationships are used when entities are similar.

9/25
Today, we asked questions about our Ch5 homework and discussed concepts such as the difference between a superkey and a key. Then, we started an exercise in which we built an ER model that corresponds to a relational database and practiced using IS-A relationships.

9/28
Today, we learned about normalization and functional dependencies. 
Notes:
- Trivial A --> A
- Non-trivial A --> B
- Transitive A —> B, B —> C, B !—> A, so A —> C
- Multivalued A -->> B

10/2
Today, we started class discussing about relational databases and normalization. In specific, Mr. Ting clarified on the concepts of 1NF, 2NF, and 3NF. Later, we finished an assignment on ER to relational databases and normalization.

10/5
After the pop quiz, we organized the database of pizza restaurants into BCNF form. Mr. Ting also clarified on 1NF, 2NF, and 3NF once again using the keywords: The Key, The Whole Key, and Nothing but the Key.

10/9
(On break)

10/12
We worked on our Ch10 homework.

10/16
(Absent)

10/19
What are the benefits of denormalization?
- record keeping
- programming is easier
What are the downfalls of denormalization?
- full of nulls
- a lot of potential anomalies
- generate spurious tuples
Inference rules
- IR1: reflexivity
- IR2: augmentation
- IR3: transitivity
- IR4: Additivity or Union
- IR5: Projectivity or Decomposition
- IR6: Pseudo Transitivity 
After reviewing denormalization and inference rules, we used sqlfiddle.com to work on coding.

10/23
Today, we used SQLFiddle to practice MySQL commands. We learned about database schema, query, and displaying data.

10/25
We continued our activity with SQLFiddle this class and practiced how to use sub-queries through getting questions on the convenience store database.

10/30
(PD Day)

11/2
(Absent)

11/6
Mr. Ting presented a design-thinking powerpoint and discussed the acronym "FU KISS CRAP" with us, which is essentially applicable to all project designs. After that, we took some time to discuss our upcoming project.

11/9
This class, we continued to practice a question on the convenience store database on SQLFiddle. Then, we moved on to DataCamp.

11/13
The whole class was dedicated to practicing SQL on DataCamp.

11/16
This class, we learned about different types of join operations and tried Inner, Outer, Left, Right, and Cross joins on SQLFiddle.

11/20
(PD Day)

11/23
(THIMUN Singapore)

11/27
This class was given to us to catch up on Datacamp exercises.

11/30
We spent most of the class attempting to download LibreOffice. The download was not very successful for me because LibreOffice continued to quit unexpectedly when I tried to save my database, but it worked out in the end.

12/4
This class was dedicated to discussing our Chapter 6 homework.

12/7
This class was given to us to work on our LibreOffice projects.

12/11
This class was given to us to work on our LibreOffice projects. I encountered problems on setting autovalues, but eventually fixed the issue through rebuilding all my tables.

12/14
This class was given to us to work on our LibreOffice projects. I worked on creating queries for my database.

12/18
This class was given to us to work on our LibreOffice projects. In this class, I focused on:
- learning subforms
- rebuilding my tables to fix logistic problems

12/20
This class was given to us to work on our LibreOffice projects. In this class, I focused on:
- learning reports
- fixing my queries
